RELNOTES for MHonArc
====================
<http://www.mhonarc.org/>

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Release Notes

Read the CHANGES document included in the distribution for a more complete
summary of changes to MHonArc. This document highlights important changes
that have occurred and important usage details which you should be aware of
before using MHonArc. If you are upgrading from a previous release, make
sure to check for the highlighted incompatibilites from earlier releases.

Table of Contents

   * Compatibility Notes
        o UPGRADING FROM v2.4.x OR EARLIER: DEFRCNAME Change
        o UPGRADING FROM v2.4.x OR EARLIER: HEADER and FOOTER Removed
        o UPGRADING FROM v2.4.x OR EARLIER: MIMEFILTERS API Change
        o UPGRADING FROM v2.1.x OR EARLIER: Database Format Change
   * General Notes

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Compatibility Notes

This sections provides notes dealing with compatibility issues if upgrading
from a previous release of MHonArc:

UPGRADING FROM v2.4.x OR EARLIER: DEFRCNAME Change

The default value for the DEFRCNAME is now called ".mhonarc.mrc", or
"mhonarc.mrc" under Windows and VMS. The old value was ".mhonarc.rc", or
"mhonarc.rc". If you use the default resource file, you will need to rename
the file to match the filenames used for v2.5 and later.

UPGRADING FROM v2.4.x OR EARLIER: HEADER and FOOTER Removed

The HEADER and FOOTER resources are no longer supported. If you are using
these resources, the HEADER content and FOOTER content will be lost once
v2.5, or later, of MHonArc processes an archive containing these resources.

The HEADER and FOOTER resources have been deprecated for a long time since
they only applied to the main index; the thread index has no equivalent. The
IDXPGBEGIN or LISTBEGIN resources can be used to achieve the same effect of
HEADER. The IDXPGEND or LISTEND can be used to achieve the same effect of
FOOTER.

UPGRADING FROM v2.4.x OR EARLIER: MIMEFILTERS API Change

The API for data filters registered via MIMEFILTERS is not capability with
filters written for v2.4.x and earlier. See CHANGES and the documentation
for the MIMEFILTERS resource for the API.

If you use custom style filters written for v2.4.x, or earlier, you will
need to update them for them to work properly under v2.5, and later.

UPGRADING FROM v2.1.x OR EARLIER: Database Format Change

If you have archives created with v2.1.x, or earlier, you must update the
archives before using versions v2.2, or later. The format of how
mime-related information is stored has changed.

To update your archives, you use the mha-dbedit program using the
def-mime.mrc in the examples directory. For example:

    mha-dbedit -rcfile examples/def-mime.mrc \
               -outdir /path/to/archive

Make sure that the mhonarc you are using is v2.2, or later. Change the
-rcfile and -outdir pathnames to reflect where you are running mhonarc and
where your archive is located, respectively.

Note, if your archives are using custom settings of MIMEFILTERS, MIMEARGS,
and/or CHARSETCONVERTERS resources, you will need to create a variant
version of def-mime.mrc (included in the examples directory) to include your
settings and use the variant version when updating your archives.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

General Notes

   * If updgrading from v2.4.x, or earlier, reference and follow-up
     information of a message is now stored in a different format in the
     database (and internally). MHonArc will auto-update older archives to
     the new format, so no action should be required on your part.

   * For v2.5, the default text/html filter (mhtxthtml.pl) will now convert
     auto-loaded URL attributes to 'javascript:void(0);' for some HTML
     elements -- IMG, BODY, IFRAME, FRAME, OBJECT, SCRIPT, INPUT -- except
     for cid: URLs. This behavior can be disabled if the 'allownoncidurls'
     filter argument is specified.

     The new behavior is to prevent malicious URLs that verify mail
     addresses for spam purposes, secretly set cookies, or gather some
     statistical data automatically with the use of elements that cause
     browsers to automatically fetch data.

   * ISO-8859 character set data processing now defaults to using the
     MHonArc::CharEnt module in v2.5. The old iso8859.pl library is still
     provided for compatibility with older archives. To update archives to
     use the new settings, you can run the following command,

         mha-dbedit -rcfile examples/def-mime.mrc \
                    -outdir /path/to/archive

     where "examples/def-mime.mrc" represents the default MIME processing
     resources for MHonArc provided within the MHonArc distribution.

   * If upgrading from v2.1.x, or earlier, any custom filters you have
     developed may need to modified. If your filter accessed some main
     variables, your filter will not operate properly. All variables that
     used to be in package "main" are no longer. The major variables are now
     in package "mhonarc". For example, $::OUTDIR is now $mhonarc::OUTDIR.
     See the MIMEFILTERS resource page for more information.

   * See the warnings in the documentation for the HTMLEXT and MSGPREFIX
     resources before using them.

   * Occasionally, a new release of MHonArc may contain new MIME filters.
     See the CHANGES file to check if any new filters have been added.

     If you confirm that new filters have been added, and you want to apply
     them to your archives, you use the mha-dbedit program using the
     def-mime.mrc in the examples directory. For example:

         mha-dbedit -rcfile examples/def-mime.mrc \
                    -outdir /path/to/archive

     Change the -rcfile and -outdir pathnames to reflect where you are
     running mhonarc and where your archive is located, respectively.

     Note, if your archives are using custom settings of MIMEFILTERS,
     MIMEARGS, and/or CHARSETCONVERTERS resources, you will need to create a
     variant version of def-mime.mrc (included in the examples directory) to
     include your settings and use the variant version when updating your
     archives.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(This document is the text version of doc/relnotes.html)
01/08/26 14:18:35
Copyright © 1997-2001, Earl Hood, mhonarc@mhonarc.org
